How to Manage Tokens and Add Flexibility
In chapter 6, we introduced tokens and gave a short definition: Tokens are a form of imaginary currency that students can spend to "buy" exceptions to course rules. Tokens are a common way to add flexibility into a course. In this section, we'll dig deeper into how to manage tokens, as well as looking at other options for adding flexibility.
Tokens add a layer of bookkeeping to a course that isn't effortless, but is easily managed. You can keep track of tokens in a spreadsheet, a custom LMS column, or a paper ledger.
When a student wants to spend a token, all they have to do is let you know via an email or verbally. However, the social cost of those interactions sometimes discourages students from using tokens. A good solution is an online form that students fill out to spend tokens. The form can simply ask for the student's name and have them select from a list of ways to use a token, asking for extra information as needed (such as which assignment they want to revise). Then link to the form on your course's main LMS page. Students fill out the form once per token they want to spend
Many online forms can be set to send you an email whenever a student
Fills it out. We usually instruct students that as soon as they submit the form, they have made the « purchase » and can go ahead and do what they need to do: No need to wait for approval. We've noticed that some students are much more willing to use this sort of form than have a one-on-one interaction with the instructor.
Although tokens are a simple and easily managed way to let students bend any rules that you'd like, there are other options.

Special Purpose Tokens
One of the most common uses of tokens is to extend a deadline, and so some instructors use dedicated tokens just for deadline extensions. A "grace day" is a single-purpose token that can extend a deadline until the next class period (or 24 hours, or whatever makes sense). Other instructors give students separate types of tokens-one for extensions, another for revisions.

No Cost Flexibility
If you don't like the transactional aspects of tokens, another option is to allow essentially unlimited flexibility for deadlines, without tokens. To do this require student to ne deer the extension and suggest a new deadline at form such as the as the one described previously for tokens. Students simply il in heir name, the assignment they need an extension on, and propose a new deadline.
Instructors often find that students use this power wisely, and they even suggest shorter extensions than the instructor might have been willing to grant. We want students to use these resources, and any way to lower barriers to their use is a good thing. As always, it's wise to make it dear that you will nor be able to provide feedback as quickly for delayed assignments.
In all cases, know your students and what will work best for them. For example, are your students used to succeeding on the first try and possibly surprised at the high bar for assessments? Ensure they aren't delaying deadlines until it's too late to reassess. Likewise, we highly recommend keeping a clear set of deadlines in place, even if you plan to allow unlimited flexibility. Deadlines help students make plans and engage effectively with course content.