How to Assess Participation or Engagement
In chapter 4, we discussed how assessing participation enforces an instructor's expectations about what engagement looks like, which is highly subject to bias. However, many instructors are required to record attendance or want to incentivize students to do "enabling activities" that support learning. Here are some ways to "count" student engagement (in various forms) in a way that is more equitable.

Completion
Certain assignments are important to complete, but don't need a grade. For example, preclass assignments for flipped classes are critical preparation, but usually aren't meant to be "correct." The same idea applies to in-class activities and practice homework. In these cases, if it's necessary to record anything at all, then record only completion (perhaps looking for a minimal amount of good-faith effort). This checks that students have made a genuine attempt at the work, without penalizing their grade for initial mistakes.

Many Routes to Participation
An approach to flexibly incentivizing participation and attendance is illustrated by Sharona Krinsky, who we first met in chapter 8. She uses a separate Brade category called "Preparation, Participation, and Practice" or PPP. Each letter grade requires a certain number of points in the PPP category. Students earn points toward PP by completing items such as "reading the textbook and watching prep videos, participating in class, doing homework, attendance, and doing practice problems." These are all based only on completion. and the number of points required is deliberately set low compared to the number of options available. This allows students many paths to meeting the requirements and avoids penalizing them for occasional lapses or difficulties with one particular aspect of engagement.

Specifications for Participation
Our last approach to assessing participation combines the wisdom from two instructors: Amy Werman, who teaches social work at Columbia University, and another instructor who asked us not to use their name.
The core idea is to ask students to self-assess their participation. The first step is to clearly define what participation means, using specifications. For example, specifications for participation in class discussions could take the form of a detailed checklist, including items such as "Frequently uses readings/media/lecture to support one's argument."
Werman collaboratively constructs this type of list of specifications with students. Students fill in the prompt "I know I participated in class today because..." and submit it as part of an "introduction" to the class. She then combines the responses into a list, which she provides to students. Rather than reflecting the instructor's particular expectations about what engagement looks like — something that is prone to bias a collaboratively constructed list gives students many options, including ones that the instructor might not have considered.
After defining participation, both instructors ask students to periodically review the participation specifications and write a brief reflection on their recent participation. The instructor can respond or give feedback as needed, leading to a conversation about participation that engages both parties. This is a very "ungrading" approach to participation: No grade is assigned yet, but students and the instructor come to an agreement, and students have a chance to adjust as necessary. At the end of the semester, students complete a final reflection, and only this contributes to their final participation grade.
This approach also helps shine a light on the "invisible work" that instructors don't always see.