How to Maintain a Gradebook
When using an alternative grading system, you'll need to think carefully about how to record progress in your own gradebook and possibly in your LMS. Here we provide general advice and describe common pitfalls. While failed advice that applies to specific LMS is beyond the scope of this book and will be quickly out of date, there are lots of people ready to help out on the internet. Reach out to colleagues and online communities and you will find concrete, hands-on help for your specific situation.

Reporting Progress in an LMS Gradebook
Most LMSs assume that you want to use points or percentages, and so reporting alternative grades via the LMS can be an exercise in frustration.
Luckily, most LMSs let you create "custom" grade columns that you can enter manually. Create one column (or grade category) for each standard or specs-graded assignment. Enter only 1 or 0 to indicate whether the student has completed that standard or not. If your LMS allows it, change these to display words instead of numbers, such as "Complete" or "Not Yet." 
If you have students upload assignments to your LMS, then the LMS will most likely create a gradebook column for that assignment as well. You can apply the principles described previously to this column. Avoid including points in these assignments at all costs, or limit them to just a 1 or 0 as described previously. LMSs are notorious for using points in inappropriate ways.
Help students track their progress by creating summary columns for each major grade category. For example, you may have a column indicating "Total Number of Standards Completed."
In every case, you'll most likely need to enter grades manually. Turn off any automatically calculated "total" or "weighted average" columns that your LMS may automatically display to students. LMSs have a bad habit of using anything that looks like a number to create a running total or percentage that is meaningless (and misleading). If that's not possible, as a last resort we have sometimes renamed those columns to "Ignore This Total. Grades Are Determined by the Table in the Syllabus." 

Creating Your Own Gradebook
Most instructors keep a separate spreadsheet in addition to using their LMS gradebook. For SBG, each assignment now requires multiple columns: one for each standard on that assignment. If using specifications, you likely only need one column per assignment to record "Satisfactory" or not.
Contrary to what we recommended about communicating with stu-dents, we do recommend using numbers to enter marks in your own spread-sheet, since spreadsheets work best with numbers (and only instructors will ice them anyhow). For example, you can enter a 1 or 0 ro indicate a standard that was successfully completed (or not). To see overall progress, you can create "summary columns" that use spreadsheet calculations to determine a student's best (or most recent) work. However you structure your grade-book, think ahead about how you will use it, and organize it to make those tasks easier.

Using a Student-Maintained Grade Record
It can be very helpful to provide a way for students to record their own progress in each grade category. This helps students get their heads into the system and understand it more deeply. One example of this can be found in Freeman's case study in chapter 8. Instructors shouldn't rely on students to record their own progress. Rather, student-maintained grade records help students track their progress in addition to other forms of communication.