How to Assign Midterm Grades and Give Progress Reports
Reporting midterm grades (and, similarly, progress reports for at-risk students and student-athletes) requires careful thought in an alternative grading system. You'll need to vary your approach depending on who requests the grade. This determines what information is actually needed, and how much leeway you have in reporting it.

Progress Reports for Students
It can be valuable to send regular progress reports to all students, without reporting a letter grade. This provides helpful feedback and aligns with what students typically want from a grade report: Am I headed in the direction I want to go, and if not, what do I need to change?
These progress reports should include actionable feedback to help steer the rest of their semester: What is a student doing successfully and what do they need to work on? Your records likely already have what you need to give useful progress feedback. You might include items such as the following:
*   Has the student been meeting standards regularly?
*   Has the student been taking advantage of reassessments, when needed?
*   Is the student doing other, nongraded things that enable success, such as completing prep work, attending class, meeting with teams, and so on?
This feedback can be given via email, on the LMS, or through informal office hour meetings.

Midterm Grade Reports
Your institution might require you to report midterm grades or grades-in-progress at other times before the end of the term. Here are some options for when you must do so.

Give the Letter Grades Meaning
Just as you can write tables or narrative descriptions for final grades, do the same for midterm grades. We advise assigning only three midterm grades: A, C, and F. Write out specific definitions for each, such as the following:
*   A: This student is making satisfactory progress and is taking advantage of reassessments as needed. I have no significant concerns about their progress.
*   C: I have a significant concern about this student's progress for at least one reason, such as meeting very few objectives, not taking advantage of reassessments when needed, or not completing important ungraded work (such as preclass prep).
*   F: This student has stopped coming to class, has missed a significant number of assignments, or is otherwise in a situation that suggests they will not pass the class.
You could define B's and D's too, but it is easier to make consistent decisions about a limited number of options. Share these definitions with students to help them understand their meaning.

Make a Projection Based on Current Progress
Suppose you have 20 standards, but students have only attempted 10 of them by midterm time. That's half of the standards, and so a student who has met seven standards now might be expected to complete about 14 by the end of the semester. You can use this with your final grade table to estimate a final grade. Just like in a traditional system, this is not truly a valid grade, but rather a "'guess" with very large error bars.
Because of reassessments, things can change dramatically before final grades are due. So be very careful with projections. We recommend "fuzzing" the final grade criteria to give students the benefit of the doubt, or "round students who are making progress on standards but havent earned full Credit yet. In the end, none of these approaches are very satisfying, and we tend to avoid them.

Ask Students to Grade Themselves
This is an "ungrading" approach to miderm grades, Have studenticy reple & structured midterm reperian oro neon-one meeting, in which they reflect on their progress and self-assign a current grade (perhaps based on narrative descriptions of letter grades, as described previously), along with providing evidence to support it. This can be a lot of work, but it is also enormously helpful to both students and instructors.