How to Give a Final Exam
Many institutions require instructors to have a final exam or "culminating experience" of some type. Others require a common final that may be points-based. Some instructors simply want to give one final assessment of student knowledge. Here are some ways to incorporate final exams into an alternatively graded class:
*   One last opportunity to meet standards. The "final exam" is just one final attempt over all the standards in the course, or a limited selection announced in advance, and students attempt only the standards that they haven't met yet. This is the simplest approach to a final exam in an SBG class. Be ready for the possibility that some students may not need to (or want to) take the final exam at all, if they are happy with their current progress. Examples in the case studies include Veazey (chapter 7) and Freeman (chapter 8).
*   Required recertification of core standards. Identify a few "core" standards and require students to complete another attempt on the final exam. This is a way to test if students have retained core knowledge, in a way that keeps it simple for the instructor. Be careful with what happens if students don't meet these core standards, considering that exams tend to be high stress and that students have no opportunity to reassess. Options include reducing the penalty for missing a standard or using the result to add a "plus" or "minus" to a grade. See Bowman (chapter 5) for an example.
*   Use something else (e.g., a final portfolio) or nothing at all. There are many options beyond a final exam. If you don't have to have a final exam, leave it off. Final exams are high stress and rarely demonstrate a student's true learning. You could replace a final exam with a final project that synthesizes key ideas (graded with specifications), a portfolio of work that demonstrates student progress on various standards and gives students a final opportunity to show their growth, or a free-form final reflection such as Frances Sus Exam Questions for a Pandemic (or Any Other Time)?

If you must give a common, points based final exam in your otherwise alternatively graded course, you still have options. A common practice is to include the final exam as a separate requirement in the course grade table or fat see Muchalskis case study (chapter 7) for an example. Or, if your situation allows it, you can use the final exam to modify the grade earned through the alternative system; for example, a student could earn a "plus" on their grade by scoring above an 80% on the final and a "minus" if they score below 1,60%, and otherwise there is no change. I's helpful in this case to keep the ranges for each outcome wide, since final exams are high stress and there is
no reassessment.