How to Build Trust and Promote Buy-In With Students
When you've created a new grading system from the ground up, you know it better than anyone else. It is very easy to forget how alien this system can seem to your students. It is sadly true that many students expect their instructors to try for the "gotcha" or to implement harshly punitive rules. Having a strong plan to build trust will help you work against a culture of mistrust and confusion, and encourage students to take advantage of the benefits of your system sooner.

Figure 12.1. Visualization of grades for use with grade adjustments.
D D+ C- C C+ B- B B+ A- A

Most Importantly, Be Clear, Honest, and Worthy of Trust 
In the words of ungrading pioneer Jesse Stommel, "start by trusting students. Begin with the view that students are trustworthy and not trying to « get away" with something, Genuinely believe that your students can succeed, that they are interested in learning, and that they will act in sensible, trustworthy ways. And tell them so.
Be clear and honest in your communication with students. If you realize something isn't working and needs to be fixed, say so, explain it, and clearly communicate the change. Students appreciate clarity and will recognize when you have their best interests at heart.

Share the Benefits of Your System for Students
Tell students how your assessment system is good for them ("It's okay to struggle early on. That won't hurt you as long as you learn these ideas eventually."). This helps students understand why they will benefit from your system and makes it clear that you care about their success. One benefit that is especially worth sharing is fairness: Students see alternative systems as more fair, because they make expectations clear and reduce competition compared to traditional systems.
Through your words and actions, show students that you're not going to pull the rug out from under them. State your beliefs directly and in plain language, for example by saying, "I want you to succeed, and this class is designed to help you succeed. I believe that everyone in this class can earn an A."

Treat Learning About Your System Just Like Any Other Teachable Topic
Your students are learning something new when it comes to your grading system. This means that you will need to devote instructional time to it, like any other new idea. In fact, since traditional grades are so deeply ingrained in higher education, you may need to address your alternative grading system more than other new ideas.
However, don't try to explain the grading system all at once on the first day of class and then assume everyone understands it, and don't assume that students understand how their grades will work just from reading the syllabus. Plan multiple encounters or explanations. For example:
1.    In the week before the semester, email students and ask them to read a short summary of the grading system. Set expectations without getting into details: Give only a brief overview of the main points, reasoning, and benefits of your system.
2.    On the first day of class, outline the system in a little more detail, but don't try to cover everyching. One of the most helpful things we’ve found, both to improve understanding and to provoke questions, is to run students through several concrete examples of how final grades are determined. Share a copy of the syllabus requirements, and ask students to determine what grades various hypothetical students earned. Be sure to include examples that might surprise students (such as a student who fails to complete one requirement in the "A" row of a grade table). Give students opportunities to talk with each other: They can often answer each other's questions.
3.    Reexplain key parts of the system as they become relevant. For example, reexplain how standards work just before you hand out the first assignment involving standards. Then review the meaning of your feedback, and how to determine next steps, just after handing back the graded assignment. Expect students to have many questions at these points, and plan some time to answer them.
4.    A few weeks before the end of your term, give advice on some common scenarios, such as students who need to complete revisions or reassessments before the end of the semester. The imminent end of the semester tends to focus students and generate new questions. See "How to Assign Midterm Grades and Give Progress Reports" for advice on how to communicate these items.
As LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner is fond of saying, "When you are tired of saying it, people are starting to hear it."' That's especially true with explaining how grading systems work to students.

Use the Language of Standards
Walk the walk and talk the talk when discussing work with students. A pleasant feature of alternative grading methods is that standards and marks give students language to describe the ways in which they are learning. Model this:
Mention relevant standards (and the actions they describe) when students are discussing their work, in class and in office hours. For example, ask students to explain why what they've shown you "demonstrates evidence" of meeting a standard. Nudge conversations about grades toward discussing specific standards and concrete steps to make progress.
Also help students understand when they're working with each standard. Put a full statement of relevant standards on each assessment. Write relevant standards on the board (or slides) before each class and explicitly call our when you're using them. Provide models of meeting, and not meeting, standards. Make it clear that your standards really matter to you and help students understand when they're working with them. 

Communicate Progress Clearly
In many alternative systems, students are effectively at an F for most of the semester, until they (at long last) finally earn enough marks to reach up into the higher grades. If your system is like this, make a concrete plan to communicate progress in a way that encourages students.

Ask for Anonymous Feedback
After students have experienced all key parts of your assessments (e. g, receiving feedback, having a chance to reassess), ask for anonymous feedback. You can do this with a short paper form or through an online forum. This is a good idea in general, not just for alternative grading. You could ask, "What is one thing I should continue doing in this class? Why?" and then repeat the question for things you should stop and something you should start doing.
Always ask why. Use responses to make real changes as needed, and don't ignore themes that show up.

Call Out Unusual Incentives or Pitfalls
Students are used to the ways that points and percentages incentivize their work (in particular, treating assignments as "one and done" or thinking in terms like "what grade do I need on the final in order to pass?"). Your class is likely to be very different. For example, when using SBG, it is likely you will reach a point where some students have already completed certain standards and don't need to attempt them again. If those standards appear on the next exam, be very clear that it's not necessary to complete problems that deal with those standards, and that this won't hurt them. They will likely need repeated assurances about this and clarifications about what is required.
Similarly, if you have hard deadlines or limits on revisions, remind students early and often about what they should be doing in order to meet those deadlines or avoid being unable to revise something they need.