How to Build Trust and Promote Buy-In With Administrators (and Others)
When instituting big changes in your grading practices, you'll need to build trust not only with your students but with others, including colleagues. our department chair, deans, and so on up the organizational hierarchy. is difficult for a grading system to be fully effective if this "second level' of stakeholders doesn’t understand, or even opposes what you are doing.

Talk to Your Colleagues and Administrators
Many of us teach year after year without ever talking about what we are doing until its required for review. But when making a major change to your grading system, take initiative to keep your "second level" informed.
I's especially good to keep your department chair, who is likely your most immediate supervisor, in the loop about what you are doing, why you're doing it, and what you expect before you implement anything. In particular, prepare your chair to get—and help them be ready to address potential student complaints. It can be helpful to do this with a memo that spells out your plans along with the benefits and potential issues.

Speak the Other Person's Language
When communicating with your "second level" group, remember that they have values and immediate interests that are different from students; the language you use should connect with those values and interests. For example, one concrete and immediate concern for many administrators is enrolment and retention. So when speaking about alternative grading to a dean or provost, explain that alternative grading builds intrinsic motivation, which improves engagement and therefore retention. Equity, in particular, is an important lever for discussing alternative grading with administrators. So emphasize the very real issues with inequity in traditional grading practices that we discussed in chapters 2 and 4 and how your alternative approach should be more equitable. Take any available chance to connect your alternative grading plans with strategic plans and be ready to explain how your plans will help realize the institution's plans.

Prepare Good Answers for Objections
Efforts to change grading systems will draw skeptics out of the woodwork, including (perhaps especially) among your colleagues. Common objections center around "rigor" and grade inflation. Have counter-arguments ready to deploy in case they are needed. See chapter 4 for possible responses to common objections, and familiarize yourself with the ones you're most likely to encounter. Also consider employing analogies to explain how your grading system works, such as comparing it to peer review in academic publishing (see chapter 3).

Show Enthusiasm and Have a Learning Mindset
When talking to colleagues, administrators, and others about your alternative grading plans, be excited about what you are doing. There is good reason for excitement: You are taking a huge step toward improving the intellectual and personal development of your students and doing concrete work toward dismantling an inequitable system. Let that enthusiasm shine through. At the same time, avoid giving a sales pitch. Be ready to explain what you are doing, why you're doing it, and what you hope to accomplish, but also ask for feedback from the people you talk to, and be honest about what might need to change and how you're planning to change it.
This advice is particularly useful for documentation you use for review, whether annual performance evaluations, contract renewal, or promotion or tenure decisions. Most institutions require evidence of teaching effective-ness. Explaining your alternative grading implementations, presenting evidence for their effectiveness, and discussing ways you are seeking out growth and improvement in them present a powerful picture of you as an expert teacher committed to learning and professional growth. Our experience is that institutions want to keep people who are taking intelligent risks to better themselves and their students.

Notes
1.    Collins et al., 2019.
2.    Nilson, 2014.
3.    Phoel, 2009.
4.    Phoel, 2009, para. 4.
5.    Phoel, 2009, para. 7.
6.    You can find extremely detailed advice on using gradebooks on our blog, https://gradingforgrowth.com/p/using-a-gradebook-with-alternative
7. Su, 2020.
8.   For much more detailed advice about building trust or "buy-in" with students, see Kelly, 2020.
9.   See https://twitter.com/jessifer/status/726424167420145664
10.  Buckmiller et al., 2017; Pope et al., 2020.
11.    Doerr, 2018, p. 50.
12.    Bethany Blackstone and Elizabeth Oldmixon, two political science instructors who use specifications grading, provided a memo to their department chair in advance, giving a simple and student-focused explanation of specs grading and why they were implementing it. By keeping the chair informed, they were able to handle student complains easily when they arose. See Blackstone & Oldmixon, 2019, for details.
