How to Give Helpful Feedback
Helpful feedback is critical to effective learning. Here we'll look at what helpful feedback is and how to give effective feedback on student work.
What makes helpful feedback tricky isn't the "feedback" part but the « helpful » part. Unhelpful feedback is easy to give ; being helpful requires work. A Harvard Business Review article by Cynthia Phoel gives a useful guide on providing helpful feedback.' Here's a summary in academic terms:
*   Focus on standards and growth. Feedback isn't the same thing as "criticism." When framed in terms of clear and specific standards, feedback presents "an opportunity to solve a problem rather than criticize as Phoel puts it. So keep feedback specific and focused on the standards, rather than the person. Put the emphasis on problem-solving. For example, when grading an essay or logical argument, avoid a vague and pejorative comment like "Your argument doesn't make any sense" for the more specific and focused comment "This argument has unjustified assumptions."
*   Ask questions. Phrasing feedback in the form of questions invites learners into a feedback loop, depersonalizes your comments, and helps learners take ownership of their growth. For example, suppose a learner sets out an argument with incorrect assumptions. Instead of just telling them what was wrong, such as "Your assumptions here are incorrect for this kind of argument," turn it into a question: "What assumptions should you be making for this kind of argument?"
*   Give feedback often. You should definitely give feedback on assignments that figure into a student's grade. But don't save feedback just for the graded items. You can give feedback any time there's an opportunity: During a class activity, while waiting for class to begin, while class is ending, or during office hours, for example. As Phoel says, "Praise good performance right away. When negative feedback is required, talk with the [learner] within 24 hours."
*   Keep your feedback data-driven. This is an aspect of making feedback specific. Feedback about an issue that isn't supported by any particular form of evidence is unhelpful and easy to ignore. Instead, tie feedback to specific items in a student's work, and avoid generalizations like "You always..." or "You never..," or referring to something that isn't present in the work the student has provided.
*   Don't assume that you're right. Sometimes when grading, you know you're right. But as your assignments climb higher in Bloom's taxonomy, it's more likely that your evaluation of student work could miss something, and what looks like an "issue" in student work is more of a disagreement. So stay humble and helpful, realizing in such cases that you may nor have the full picture. You can always talk with a student before assigning a mark, and this discussion can be enlightening.

Helpful feedback takes practice, just like any learning. Feedback loops are the "roof" that the four pillars support, so it's worth taking time to practice and improve your own feedback.