How to Assign Final Grades
Here are some common ways we've already seen to turn progress on standards or specifications into final grades:
*   Grade table. Each row corresponds to a letter grade, and each column is a category in which students can make progress (e.g., "Number of Standards Mer" or "Daily Prep Completed"). Students must meet all requirements in a row to earn that grade. Examples are found throughout the case studies, including items graded for completion, or using points or percentages.
*   List of requirements or "narrative." Write out requirements for each grade in words. This can sometimes be simpler than a table, if the requirements for some items involve more than just numbers. Bowman (chapter 5) gives an example.
*   Number of standards. In SBG, a grade might be based only on the number of standards completed. Momsen (chapter 8) demonstrates this.
*   Include standards in a weighted-average system. See "Standards-Based Testing" in chapter 10 for an example.

Partial Grades (Plus, Minus, or AB)
Ofien, it's easiest to communicate how to cam "whole" letter grades A, B, C, D) in a grade table or list. If your institution assigns partial grades. youll need to clearly explain how these are determined. Here are a few options.
• Modify a "whole" grade. Whole letter grades are assigned using a table or list, and you provide general rules for how modifications happen. In the "near miss" approach, students earn a "plus" for completing all requirements for a letter grade and also some of the requirements for a higher grade. A "minus" comes from completing all but some of the requirements. Be clear about what some means. In the "extras" approach, identify a few activities that do not factor into the basic letter grade, but which could contribute to a plus grade. A minus may not be given at all, or it may be given for failure to complete any of the extras, or some combination of them. Alternatively, use the final exam to modify the final grade (see "How to Give a Final Exam" for details).
*   Include partial grades in the grade table or list. This can make the table quite large, but allows fine-tuning. For examples, see Veazey (chapter 7) and Bender (chapter 8).
*   The "ungrading" approach. Write a narrative description of what a plus or minus means in general and let students make a case for themselves, based on concrete examples from their work, that they should earn (or not) one of these modifiers.
One way to help students understand modifications is to visualize their grade on a "scale," like in Figure 12.1.
Adjustments can be phrased in terms of taking a "step" one block to the right or left. For example, "Take one step right if you complete at least 90% of Beginning Activities."